# Neural Networks for Machine Learning 
## Geoffrey Hinton University of Toronto 

### 1a Why do we need machine learning 

It is very hard to write programs for some problems.  

Problems that we don't really understand how the human brain solves, such as reliable object detection in a cluttered scene and unoptimal angles and lighting conditions.  

Instead of writing each program by hand we give the computer a large set of example inputs and expected outputs. A machine learning algorithm then creates the program (model) to match the inputs to the outputs (training). 

If done well this machine generated program should also work for new inputs not known at the time of training.  

Even if the task could be solved by hand written program, massive amounts of computation to generate models is now significantly cheaper.  

Example tasks best solved by learning

Recognising Patterns:
- Objects in the real world.
- Facial expressions.
- Spoken words.

Recognising Anomalies:
- In credit card transactions.
- Abnormal sensor readings.

Prediction:
- Suggested Products / Movies.

#### NMIST

Database of hand written digits.
- Publicly available
- Existing results to compare against

#### ImageNet

Neural Network with around 100million parameters can recognise a 1000 different object classes in over 1 million images.  

Best system in 2010 47% error first choice 25% error top 5 choices.

In 2012 using Neural Network 40% error first choice less than 20% error top 5 choices.  

[Note](https://paperswithcode.com/sota/image-classification-on-imagenet): since 2020 ~10% error for first choice and 1% error for top 5 choices. 

#### Speech Recognition

[X](https://youtu.be/OVwEeSsSCHE?list=PLLssT5z_DsK_gyrQ_biidwvPYCRNGI3iv&t=620)


